[KOGITO-5268] - Introduce Kogito Dependencies BOM (#1515)
kiegroup/kogito-runtimes: kogito-build/README.md

# Kogito BOMs Hierarchy and Usage

Each Kogito BOM descriptor has a specific usage. See the hierarchy diagram and read the sections below to know more.

![](../docsimg/kogito-bom-hierarchy.png)

## Kogito BOM

The `org.kie.kogito:kogito-bom` contains every library distributed and maintained by the Kogito project. It's where

> every module of this project resides. It's used most internally by specifics descriptors. End users should not use it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
every module of this project resides. It's used mostly internally by specific descriptors. End users should not use it
```

directly in their projects.

Any new module should be added here.

## Kogito Dependencies BOM

The `org.kie.kogito:kogito-dependencies-bom` contains every third-party library used by Kogito in a whole. **It's not

> tied to a specific runtime**. Can communicate to external ecosystems the required third-party dependencies used by

Reviewer 2: I think we can explicitly mention Quarkus here, wdyt?

```suggestion
tied to a specific runtime**. Used to communicate to Quarkus ecosystems the required third-party dependencies used by
```

Reviewer 3: i agree with @ricardozanini, it is just properly split to have logical 3rd party deps.

Kogito.

## Kogito Build Parent BOM

Main entry point for build specific configuration. Every plugin, profile, and any other build configuration should be
added here. Imports `org.kie.kogito:kogito-bom` and inherit the dependency configuration

> from `org.kie.kogito:kogito-dependencies-bom`. This means that every internal module inherits from it. End users should

Reviewer: Can we make the note `End users should not use it directly in their projects.` in each section more distinctive? At least a new line and maybe some prefix like `Note:` ? Or even sth like Purpose, etc.

not use it directly in their projects.

> ## Kogito Quarkus BOM

Reviewer 2: Can you add a link to this module?

> Inherits from `org.kie.kogito:kogito-build-parent` and imports the Quarkus BOM. Contains specifics configuration and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inherits from `org.kie.kogito:kogito-build-parent` and imports the Quarkus BOM. Contains specific configuration and
```

> Inherits from `org.kie.kogito:kogito-build-parent` and imports the Quarkus BOM. Contains specifics configuration and

Reviewer 4: Generally, we should be careful using a "build-parent" as a base for a user BOM. In case you want to configure some constraints that are relevant for Kogito building and testing and are not actually relevant to the users of Kogito, where would you add them? "build-parent" may seem like a natural place for those. So, please keep that in mind, we don't want to pollute the platform BOMs with constraints that aren't relevant to the platform.

Author: @aloubyansky you're right. We can't force our build specifics to end user's projects. Actually, this BOM is **not** meant to be used by our users. The approach for Kogito + Quarkus projects is to create a new project via Quarkus plugin, and add the Kogito Extensions. In this scenario, users can import our `kogito-bom` to have our modules imported correctly plus the Quarkus platform. This one is meant to be used internally only. I'll update the README.

@evacchi @danielezonca @cristianonicolai cc

Author: Also, our documentation will be updated to reflect the Quarkus Plugin + Kogito Extensions + Kogito BOM descriptor import. @cristianonicolai I think we need to update this PR: https://github.com/kiegroup/kie-docs/pull/3832

Reviewer: @ricardozanini so to rephrase, usage of Kogito on Quarkus will be encouraged only through Quarkus Platform, correct?

> dependency for internal modules targeting the Quarkus Runtime. **It's the end user BOM descriptor for Kogito Quarkus

Reviewer: again here **It's the end user BOM descriptor for Kogito Quarkus projects** could be on a new line and prefixed probably, to make more distinctive.

Reviewer 3: s/specifics/specific/

projects**.

### Usage

Add this section to your `pom.xml` file:

```xml

<dependencyManagement>
  <dependencies>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.kie.kogito</groupId>
      <artifactId>kogito-quarkus-bom</artifactId>
      <version>${kogito.version}</version>
      <type>pom</type>
      <scope>import</scope>
    </dependency>
  </dependencies>
</dependencyManagement>
```

> ## Kogito Spring Boot BOM

Reviewer 2: Can you add a link to this module?

Similarly to Kogito Quarkus BOM, this descriptor inherits from `org.kie.kogito:kogito-build-parent` and imports the
[Spring Boot dependencies BOM](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.5.3/maven-plugin/reference/htmlsingle/#using.import)

> . Contains specifics configuration and dependency for internal modules targeting the Spring Boot Runtime. **It's the end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Contains specific configuration and dependencies for internal modules targeting the Spring Boot Runtime. **It's the end
```
